feat(build): #1108 document contributing (#1111)
fluidattacks/makes: docs/src/contributing.md

1. [Git][git]-push changes to your fork
1. Create a **Pull Request** from your fork to [Makes][makes]

### Testing your local changes

You can run local changes by simply running `m . <job>`.
If you're adding new files, make sure to `git add` them first.

### Adding documentation

- All changes must be documented in the same PR.
- You can run `m . /docs/dev` to serve the [docs site](https://makes.fluidattacks.com)
  on localhost.

> - Make sure you lint the documentation with `m . /lintMarkdown/all`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure you lint the documentation with `m . /lintMarkdown/all`.
```

### Adding tests

- All new [builtins](https://makes.fluidattacks.com/api/builtins/) must be
  tested.
- You can add tests to either `/makes.nix` or `/makes/your-builtin/main.nix`
  depending on the nature of the builtin.
- Make sure to add such tests to the [GitHub Actions pipelines as well](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/tree/main/.github/workflows).

### Adding yourself to the mailmap

You must add yourself to the
[.mailmap](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/blob/main/.mailmap) file.
Make sure to test it with `m . /lintGitMailMap`.

### Validating commit message

- Your commit message must follow this [syntax](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/tree/main/test/lint-commit-msg).
- You must sign your commits by adding a `Signed-off-by` line at the end of your
  commit message.
- You can take a look at other commits [here](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/commits/main).
- Make sure to test it with `m . /lintGitCommitMsg`.

### Other PR rules

A PR must:

- Only be one commit ahead of main.
- Have a title and body equal to its commmit message.

### Examples

> Code contributions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

1. [Git][git]-push changes to your fork
1. Create a **Pull Request** from your fork to [Makes][makes]

### Testing new features

- All new [builtins](https://makes.fluidattacks.com/api/builtins/) must be
  tested.
- You can add tests to either `/makes.nix` or `/makes/your-builtin/main.nix`
  depending on the nature of the builtin.
- Make sure to add such tests to the [GitHub Actions pipelines as well](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/tree/main/.github/workflows).

### Testing your local changes

You can run local changes by simply running `m . <job>`.
If you're adding new files, make sure to `git add` them first.

### Adding yourself to the mailmap

You must add yourself to the
[.mailmap](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/blob/main/.mailmap) file.
Make sure to test it with `m . /lintGitMailMap`.

### Validating commit message

> - Your commit message must follow this [syntax](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/tree/main/test/lint-commit-msg).
> - You can take a look at other commits [here](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/commits/main).
> - Make sure to test it with `m . /lintGitCommitMsg`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your commit message must follow this [syntax](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/tree/main/test/lint-commit-msg).
- You must sign your commits by adding a `Signed-off-by` line at the end of your
commit message.
- You can take a look at other commits [here](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/commits/main).
- Make sure to test it with `m . /lintGitCommitMsg`.
```

1. [Git][git]-push changes to your fork
1. Create a **Pull Request** from your fork to [Makes][makes]

#### Testing your local changes

You can run local changes by simply running `m . <job>`.
If you're adding new files, make sure to `git add` them first.

#### Adding documentation

- All changes must be documented in the same PR.
- You can run `m . /docs/dev` to serve the [docs site](https://makes.fluidattacks.com)
  on localhost.
- Make sure you lint the documentation with `m . /lintMarkdown/all`.

#### Adding tests

- All new [builtins](https://makes.fluidattacks.com/api/builtins/) must be
  tested.
- You can add tests to either `/makes.nix` or `/makes/your-builtin/main.nix`
  depending on the nature of the builtin.

> - Make sure to add such tests to the [GitHub Actions pipelines as well](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/tree/main/.github/workflows).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure to add such tests 
  to the [GitHub Actions pipelines](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/tree/main/.github/workflows) 
  as well.
```

1. [Git][git]-push changes to your fork
1. Create a **Pull Request** from your fork to [Makes][makes]

#### Testing your local changes

You can run local changes by simply running `m . <job>`.
If you're adding new files, make sure to `git add` them first.

#### Adding documentation

- All changes must be documented in the same PR.
- You can run `m . /docs/dev` to serve the [docs site](https://makes.fluidattacks.com)
  on localhost.
- Make sure you lint the documentation with `m . /lintMarkdown/all`.

#### Adding tests

- All new [builtins](https://makes.fluidattacks.com/api/builtins/) must be
  tested.
- You can add tests to either `/makes.nix` or `/makes/your-builtin/main.nix`
  depending on the nature of the builtin.
- Make sure to add such tests

>   to the [GitHub Actions pipelines as well](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/tree/main/.github/workflows)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to the [GitHub Actions pipelines](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/tree/main/.github/workflows)
```

- [feat(build): #252 aws secrets from env](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/commit/1c9f06a809bd92d56939d5809ce46058856fdf0a)
- [feat(build): #232 make parallel utils](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/commit/99e9f77482a6cbc9858a7a928a91a8a8aa9ff353)

### Running your local changes

> Once you have finished your changes you need to add them to the staging area.
> You should use `git add`, and add the files.
> 
> After that, just run `m . <job>` and if everything goes well you won't receive
> any error message, if you do, then keep working, you're almost there!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can run local changes by simply running `m . <job>`.
- If you're adding new files, make sure to `git add` them so Makes can recognize them.
```

### Adding yourself to the mailmap

> When contributing is important to add yourself to the `.mailmap` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When contributing is important to add yourself to the [.mailmap](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/blob/main/.mailmap) file.
```

> This file is lexicographically sorted, so you must to add you with this in mind.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure to test it with `m . /lintGitMailMap`.
```

> 
> You can test it running `m . /lintGitMailMap`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Validating commit message

> Once you have your commit ready to be pushed, you can verify if your commit
> have the proper structure with `m . /lintGitCommitMsg`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your commit message must follow this [syntax](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/tree/main/test/lint-commit-msg).
- You can take a look at other commits [here](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/commits/main).
- Make sure to test it with `m . /lintGitCommitMsg`.
```

### DCO

> Contributors sign-off that they adhere to these requirements by adding a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must sign your commits by adding a
```

> `Signed-off-by` line to commit messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Signed-off-by` line at the end of your commit message.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Example:

```

```
This is my commit message

> Signed-off-by: Full Name <email>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Signed-off-by: Robin Quintero <rohaquinlop301@gmail.com>
```

```

> 
> Make sure that the commit's author matches with this information and the
> `.mailmap` file information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### Adding and rendering documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Rendering docs
```

> When contributing in documentation use `m . /docs/dev` to render it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run `m . /docs/dev` to serve the [doc site](https://makes.fluidattacks.com) on localhost.
```

- [feat(build): #252 aws secrets from env](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/commit/1c9f06a809bd92d56939d5809ce46058856fdf0a)
- [feat(build): #232 make parallel utils](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/commit/99e9f77482a6cbc9858a7a928a91a8a8aa9ff353)

### Testing your local changes

You can run local changes by simply running `m . <job>`.
If you're adding new files, make sure to `git add` them so Makes can recognize
them.

### Adding yourself to the mailmap

When contributing is important to add yourself to the
[.mailmap](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/blob/main/.mailmap) file.
Make sure to test it with `m . /lintGitMailMap`.

### Validating commit message

- Your commit message must follow this [syntax](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/tree/main/test/lint-commit-msg).
- You can take a look at other commits [here](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/commits/main).
- Make sure to test it with `m . /lintGitCommitMsg`.

### DCO

You must sign your commits by adding a `Signed-off-by` line at the end of your
commit messages.

Example:

```

> This is my commit message

Reviewer: Maybe add an entire commit message example including title and body?

Signed-off-by: Robin Quintero <rohaquinlop301@gmail.com>
```

### Adding documentation

> All added features must be commented in the same PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All added features must be documented in the same PR.
```

- [feat(build): #252 aws secrets from env](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/commit/1c9f06a809bd92d56939d5809ce46058856fdf0a)
- [feat(build): #232 make parallel utils](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/commit/99e9f77482a6cbc9858a7a928a91a8a8aa9ff353)

### Testing your local changes

You can run local changes by simply running `m . <job>`.

> If you're adding new files, make sure `git add` first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're adding new files, make sure `git add` them first.
```

### Adding yourself to the mailmap

When contributing it is important to add yourself to the
[.mailmap](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/blob/main/.mailmap) file.
Make sure to test it with `m . /lintGitMailMap`.

### Validating commit message

- Your commit message must follow this [syntax](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/tree/main/test/lint-commit-msg).
- You can take a look at other commits [here](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/commits/main).
- Make sure to test it with `m . /lintGitCommitMsg`.

### DCO

You must sign your commits by adding a `Signed-off-by` line at the end of your
commit message.

Example:

```
feat(build): #1099 licensing builtin with reuse

- Create `testLicense` builtin with reuse.
- Add job to dev pipeline

Signed-off-by: Robin Quintero <rohaquinlop301@gmail.com>
```

### Adding documentation

> All changes must be documented in the same PR.
> You can run `m . /docs/dev` to serve the [doc site](https://makes.fluidattacks.com)
> on localhost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All changes must be documented in the same PR.
- You can run `m . /docs/dev` to serve the [doc site](https://makes.fluidattacks.com)
on localhost.
- Make sure to lint the documentation with `m . /lintMarkdown/all`.
```

- [feat(build): #252 aws secrets from env](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/commit/1c9f06a809bd92d56939d5809ce46058856fdf0a)
- [feat(build): #232 make parallel utils](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/commit/99e9f77482a6cbc9858a7a928a91a8a8aa9ff353)

### Testing your local changes

You can run local changes by simply running `m . <job>`.

> If you're adding new files, make sure `git add` them first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're adding new files, make sure to `git add` them first.
```

> If you're adding new files, make sure to `git add` them so Makes can recognize
> them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're adding new files, make sure to `git add` first.
```

### Adding yourself to the mailmap

> When contributing it is important to add yourself to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must add yourself to the
```

> When contributing is important to add yourself to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When contributing it is important to add yourself to the
```

Make sure to test it with `m . /lintGitMailMap`.

### Validating commit message

- Your commit message must follow this [syntax](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/tree/main/test/lint-commit-msg).
- You can take a look at other commits [here](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/commits/main).
- Make sure to test it with `m . /lintGitCommitMsg`.

> ### DCO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Signing your commit
```

### DCO

You must sign your commits by adding a `Signed-off-by` line at the end of your

> commit messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
commit message.
```

Example:

```

> feat(build): #1099 licensing builtin with reuse

Reviewer: I actually like this one even more! ❤️

Author: Niceee, thanks!

- Create `testLicense` builtin with reuse.
- Add job to dev pipeline

Signed-off-by: Robin Quintero <rohaquinlop301@gmail.com>
```

### Adding documentation

> All added features must be documented in the same PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All changes must be documented in the same PR.
```

> - You can run `m . /docs/dev` to serve the [doc site](https://makes.fluidattacks.com)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can run `m . /docs/dev` to serve the [docs site](https://makes.fluidattacks.com).
```

on localhost.

> - Make sure to lint the documentation with `m . /lintMarkdown/all`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure you lint the documentation with `m . /lintMarkdown/all`.
```

- [feat(build): #252 aws secrets from env](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/commit/1c9f06a809bd92d56939d5809ce46058856fdf0a)
- [feat(build): #232 make parallel utils](https://github.com/fluidattacks/makes/commit/99e9f77482a6cbc9858a7a928a91a8a8aa9ff353)

Validating commit message:

```
feat(build): #1099 licensing builtin with reuse

- Create `testLicense` builtin with reuse.
- Add job to dev pipeline

Signed-off-by: Robin Quintero <rohaquinlop301@gmail.com>

> ```

Reviewer: Remove this. Unnecessary as we're already pointing to example commit messages.
